[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
roger johnson and rachel burden good
morning our headlines today
more than 100 000 over 80s in england
have been invited to get their
covert job at new mass vaccination
centers
the nhs is focusing them facing the most
dangerous situation
anyone can remember that is the warning
from chief medical officer chris witte
as he once again urges us to stay
at home a need for strong enforcement
the home secretary backs plans to issue
fines more quickly
to those who break lockdown rules
good morning charlie hit the right notes
in the fa cup
[Music]
the non-leaguers continue their dream
run knocking out
derby county to make it through to the
fourth round
good morning we start this morning with
a few icy patches
and some fog around as well but it will
be a milder day
today some much-needed mild air is on
the way it's a fairly mild week ahead as
well but join me later
for all the details
[Music]
hello good morning it's sunday the 10th
of january our top story on the
programme today hundreds of thousands of
people
aged 80 and over are being invited to
book their slot at one of england's mass
vaccination centers
letters have been sent to those who live
within 45 minutes drive of one of seven
sites which are due to open this week
as our health correspondent allah
conningson reports
there are already more than a thousand
vaccination sites across england
but the rollout is expanding further
with some of the most vulnerable
now invited to receive their jab at a
mass vaccination center
more than 130 000 letters have been sent
to elderly patients who live near
one of the seven sites which are due to
open this week
around 1.5 million people in the uk have
had at least
one dose of a covered vaccine including
the queen and prince philip
both in their 90s the royal couple are
in the main priority group
which consists of around 15 million
people
but the nhs faces a huge logistical
challenge
trying to vaccinate them all by
mid-february
okay here we are from tomorrow the
oxford astrazeneca vaccine will become
more widely available in scotland
with its delivery due to be expanded to
gp practices and centers across the
country
so far more than 70 000 vaccinations
have taken place both in wales and in
northern ireland
sure good that's good but with fears the
current wave
threatens to overwhelm many hospitals
the race is on
the uk is now just one of five countries
in the world
to record more than 80 000 coronavirus
deaths
it's just really bad news and
the thing with hospitalizations is that
we've seen like especially in london
the nhs is already overwhelmed and the
people who are going to need hospital
over the next 10 days
already have covid so we know just
because case numbers have been going up
that that number's going to keep going
up
every day mass testing is one way to
stop the virus spreading
in the coming days all local authorities
in england will be able to provide
rapid community testing including to
people who have no symptoms
but many are critical about the accuracy
of these tests
and scientific advisors argue only
tougher lockdown measures
will bring the more contagious variant
under control once and for all
anna collinson bbc news despite the
rollout of the vaccine
england's chief medical officer chris
witte has warned that the nhs
faces the most dangerous situation in
living memory
and this comes as the home secretary
defends the way the police have handed
out fines during lockdown saying there
is a need for strong enforcement
let's get more on this from our
political correspondent nick early first
of all nick very strong words from chris
witte today
they are rachel morning we i mean we've
heard quite a lot from politicians
haven't we about
how worried they are but i think there's
a feeling that they need to get the
medical experts out there as well really
hammering home the message to us all
about how severe the situation is just
now that's what you're getting from
england's chief medical officer he's
written a piece for the times
where he basically says that the nhs
if the virus continues to increase as it
has been
could be in real trouble very soon and
he's warning that that has real
implications for
people getting care for the number of
doctors who can help
each patient and that ultimately if that
happens it will lead
to unavoidable death so it is a pretty
stark
message from chris whittie this morning
the big question is
what do you do what do you do next and
the feeling in government although you
heard an anna's piece there that there
have been some calls
for further restrictions maybe even
further tightening
the lock down in england there is also a
feeling that we're going to hear more
about
compliance and urging everybody to
follow the rules that are already in
place
and another of the issues is policing
for lockdown we spoke about it yesterday
on this program but the home secretary
has been backing up police forces who've
been handing out these fines tell us
more
yeah so pretty patel the the home
secretary has been saying this morning
that basically it's important that the
government still or sorry
the police still have the ability to
hand out fines that
there are some people who are breaking
the rules and there needs to be
that ability to crack down on them and
again from her
you're hearing that message that if
people don't follow the rules
if there isn't a crackdown on people who
are breaking the rules
then ultimately that will cost lives as
well
and i do think that compliance issue is
one there's really worrying people
in downing street it'll be interesting
to you if ministers start
saying that there's there's a real
reluctance to criticize the public it's
been a really
really hard year for a lot of people and
you know a lot of people have
had to make big sacrifices but the view
in government
is that at the moment too many people
are finding loopholes and ways around
the rules
and that needs to be tightened up thank
you very much that's nick early in
london
away from the pandemic and over in the
united states impeachment proceedings
against donald trump will begin
tomorrow the president has been accused
of encouraging his supporters to storm
the capitol building in washington our
north america correspondent peter bowes
reports
the images that shocked america and the
world video and photographs that are now
being scrutinized by the authorities
to bring those responsible to justice
this man dressed in a bare-skinned
headdress
and carrying a six-foot spear was among
those that
stormed the u.s capital and gained
access to the senate chamber
prosecutors say he's jacob chansley a
prominent follower of the baseless
conspiracy theory q anon
now in custody on charges that include
violent entry
and disorderly conduct adam johnson was
pictured carrying the lectern used by
the house speaker
nancy pelosi he's now in custody in
florida
hello patriots protests for and against
donald trump have continued this weekend
heavily armed supporters of the
president gathered in minneapolis
we want donald trump to resign while in
chicago
opponents of the president rallied
outside the city's trump tower
in washington there's now intense
security the national guard is on patrol
around the capital where joe biden will
be inaugurated as the nation's next
president
in 10 days time donald trump has said he
won't be there
but the vice president mike pence and
his wife do plan to attend the ceremony
in the meantime democrats plan to move
forward with a second impeachment of the
president
starting on monday it was an act of
sedition
that was incited and encouraged by
donald
trump and that's why he must be held
accountable
to the full extent of the law the claim
in the draft articles of impeachment
is that donald trump's behavior gravely
endangered the security
of the united states but some
republicans think the process
could fuel further unrest others argue
there simply isn't enough time i've got
enough decisions to make about things
that can happen
rather than to spend time on things that
can't happen
if the house of representatives votes to
impeach the president
the earliest the u.s senate could begin
a trial of mr trump
is january the 20th the day he's due to
leave
office peter bowes bbc news los angeles
well meanwhile apple has suspended the
social networking site
parlor from its app store after accusing
it of allowing posts that incite
violence
google's already suspended the app which
is popular with supporters of donald
trump following that storming
of the capitol building in washington
last week
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news